docs(community-wallets): add developer guide for community wallets (#1040)
midnightntwrk/midnight-docs: sdks/community/wallets/reference.mdx

| urble | Not documented | Not documented | Not documented | Not documented |
| Dynamic | No | n/a | Not documented | Yes (non-Midnight) |
| Ctrl | Not documented | Not documented | Not documented | Not documented |
| Gero | Not documented | Not documented | Not documented | Not documented |

### Developer integration

| Wallet | DApp Connector | `signData` | Dedicated SDK | DApp browser | Hardware wallet | Cardano / multi-chain | Staking |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Lace | Yes (`mnLace`) | No | No | n/a | Yes (Cardano) | Yes | Yes (Cardano) |
| 1AM | Yes (`'1am'`) | Not documented | Announced / Not documented | Yes | Not documented | No | Not documented |
| Kuira | Not documented | Not documented | Yes (Android, public docs) | n/a | Not documented | No | Not documented |
| urble | No | Not documented | No | No | Not documented | No | No |
| Dynamic | No | Not documented | Yes (non-Midnight) | n/a | No | No (other chains) | No |
| Ctrl | Partial | Not documented | No | Yes | Yes (Ledger/Trezor) | Yes | Yes |
| Gero | Not documented | Not documented | No | Not documented | Not documented | Yes | Not documented |

> **Key notes.** *Partial* (Ctrl) means a connector stated by the vendor, so feature-detect at runtime. *Not documented* (Gero) means vendor-stated, pending public documentation; Gero is a valid Cardano-side **NIGHT claim** wallet. *Dynamic* cells reflect its **lack of documented Midnight support**. *1AM gas sponsorship* is **not documented** (see the note in [1AM](./wallets-overview.mdx#1am)). *1AM "Dedicated SDK"* is **announced / not documented**; the advertised "Proof Station SDK" has no published package or docs (see [1AM](./wallets-overview.mdx#1am)), so integrate 1AM via the standard connector. *Kuira "in-browser proving"* means **on-device mobile proving** (Android), not browser WASM. *Kuira "Dedicated SDK: Yes"* is the one mobile SDK with public docs (see [Kuira](./wallets-overview.mdx#kuira)).

Reviewer: [BLOCKER] The "Key notes" paragraph is a 100-word wall of italic text. Convert to bullets so a reader can scan:

```
**Key notes:**
- **Partial** (Ctrl): connector stated by vendor; feature-detect at runtime.
- **Not documented** (Gero): vendor-stated, pending public docs; valid Cardano-side NIGHT claim wallet.
- **Dynamic** cells reflect no documented Midnight support.
- **1AM gas sponsorship** is not documented; see the [1AM note](./wallets-overview.mdx#1am).
- **1AM "Dedicated SDK"** is announced, not documented; integrate via the standard connector.
- **Kuira "in-browser proving"** means on-device mobile proving (Android), not browser WASM.
- **Kuira "Dedicated SDK: Yes"** is the one mobile SDK with public docs.
```

Author: Done — converted the "Key notes" paragraph to bullets. (04141105)

### Developer experience

Beyond *who holds the keys* and *how the wallet is reached*, the daily question while building is **which wallet gives the best development loop**: can it talk to a **local network** (`undeployed`, disposable Midnight-in-Docker, no faucets), point at **custom servers**, create **reproducible test wallets** from a known seed, and run **headless in CI** with no human clicking *approve*?

| Wallet | Local network (`undeployed`) | Custom servers | Reproducible test wallets | Headless / CI |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| **wallet-CLI** | **Yes** (`localnet up`) | **Yes** (`config set`) | **Yes** (seed-based `wallet generate`) | **Yes** (`serve --approve-all`) |
| Lace | Partial (local proof server) | Partial (proof-server URL) | No (UI-generated seed) | No (manual pop-up approval) |
| 1AM | Not documented | Not documented | No | No (manual approval) |
| Kuira | Not documented | Not documented | Partial (`wallet-seed` module) | No (mobile, biometric approval) |

> **Takeaway.** For the inner dev loop (local network, reproducible fixtures, no human in the way) the **wallet CLI** is purpose-built and wins outright (see [Develop and test without a wallet](./cli-and-mcp.mdx#develop-and-test-without-a-wallet)). The browser and mobile wallets are *end-user* surfaces: build and test against the CLI, then let users connect with Lace/1AM (or ship Kuira embedded).

Reviewer: "Wins outright" is a subjective ranking. Round 1 removed Verdict lines for the same reason.

```suggestion
**Takeaway.** For the inner dev loop (local network, reproducible fixtures, no human in the way) the **wallet CLI** covers every column (see [Develop and test without a wallet](./cli-and-mcp.mdx#develop-and-test-without-a-wallet)). The browser and mobile wallets are *end-user* surfaces: build and test against the CLI, then let users connect with Lace/1AM (or ship Kuira embedded).
```

Author: Done — applied the neutral takeaway ("the wallet CLI covers every column"). (04141105)

- **DApp Connector / CAIP-372:** the standard by which a wallet injects an API under `window.midnight`.
- **rdns:** reverse-DNS wallet id used for discovery (`mnLace`, `'1am'`).
- **Intent:** an (often unbalanced) set of inputs/outputs; the building block for transfers and swaps.
- **Sealed vs unsealed tx:** ready-to-submit (proofs plus binding) versus pre-binding.
- **Relayer:** submits a tx and pays its fees on the user's behalf (the basis of "gas sponsorship").
- **Proving provider:** the abstraction (`getProvingProvider`) for delegating ZK proving to the wallet.
- **Bech32m:** the address encoding the connector returns.
- **Local proof server:** the native binary (`localhost:6300`) that generates ZK proofs for wallets that don't prove in-browser.
- **Wallet-IaaS / Smart Custody:** Midnight infrastructure for delegated or embedded wallet provisioning (also called **Wallet-as-a-Service, WaaS**); the route for social/passkey onboarding.
- **DID (decentralized identifier):** a self-owned identifier (for example `did:key:…`) not issued by a central authority; in Kuira a DID is derived from a passkey to form the **Sigil**.

## Sources

**DApp Connector / standard**

> - API reference: https://docs.midnight.network/api-reference/dapp-connector

Reviewer: [MINOR] The Sources section (lines 161-209) uses bare URLs without descriptive link text. Format as proper markdown links, for example `[Lace Midnight page](https://www.lace.io/midnight)`. Bare URLs render poorly and fail the descriptive-link-text rule.

Author: Done — the Sources section now uses descriptive markdown links instead of bare URLs. (04141105)
